# Task Overview :
## Task 1 : Google Cloud, SDK Authentication and Vertex AI
For the first task, we create our Google Cloud Platform account and a project associated with the following account and a service account for managing the permissions associated with the project on the Google cloud platform.
## Task 2 : Dev Environment Setup
For the following task, do check if you are able to access the following GCP account with your service account key from the code provided. Also create an environment inside which you can install all the requirements.Use the service account key to authenticate and authorize access to your GCP resources.Test the access by running a script or command that interacts with GCP services using the credentials provided in the service account key.Hence, Once you have set up the environment and installed the dependencies, run your application to ensure it functions correctly.
## Task 3 : Document Ingestion
Document Processor processes uploaded PDF documents using Streamlit and Lang Chains PyPDFLoader. It renders a file uploader widget using Streamlit. It processes each uploaded PDF file, extracting its pages and updating the self.pages list with the total number of pages. Temporary files with unique names are generated to handle the uploaded files. Finally, it displays the total number of pages processed based on the size of the pages list after adding the extracted pages to the pages list.
## Task 4 : Embedding with Vertex AI and Langchain
Embedding Client is responsible for connecting to Google Cloud's VertexAI service for text embeddings. It utilizes the VertexAIEmbeddings wrapper from Langchain's Google VertexAI integration.It provides methods to embed text queries (embed_query) and multiple documents (embed_documents).Therefore, in this task, we initialize an EmbeddingClient instance with specific configurations and verify the embed_query method with a sample text query ("Hello World!"), that prints the resulting embeddings if successful.
## Task 5 : Data Pipeline to Chroma DB
ChromaCollectionCreator is responsible for creating a Chroma collection from processed documents using Langchain's tools. It interacts with the DocumentProcessor from Task 3 and the EmbeddingClient from Task 4, it initializes with instances of DocumentProcessor and EmbeddingClient and checks if documents have been processed by the DocumentProcessor.It also splits documents into smaller text chunks, creates a Chroma collection from the text chunks using the embeddings from the EmbeddingClient and searches the created Chroma collection for documents similar to a given query.Then, it returns the first matching document along with its similarity score. Hence, It initializes instances of DocumentProcessor and EmbeddingClient, initializes a ChromaCollectionCreator with these instances and renders a Streamlit form to load data into Chroma.Upon submission, it invokes the method to create the Chroma collection. This task essentially orchestrates the creation of a Chroma collection using processed documents and embeddings, showcasing the integration of Langchain's functionalities.
## Task 6 : Streamlit UI for Data Ingestion
This task aims to build a Quiz Builder application using Streamlit and LangChain and integrates DocumentProcessor ( from Task 3): Processes uploaded PDF documents, EmbeddingClient (from Task 4): Embeds queries for text, ChromaCollectionCreator ( from Task 5): Creates a Chroma collection from processed documents. It initializes instances of DocumentProcessor, EmbeddingClient, and ChromaCollectionCreator and in the following task streamlit widgets capture the user's input for the quiz topic and the desired number of questions. Upon form submission, it invokes the create_chroma_collection() method to create a Chroma collection from the processed documents.It queries the created Chroma collection for documents related to the quiz topic. If a document is found, it displays the top document related to the quiz topic. Overall, it orchestrates the creation of a quiz based on processed documents, allowing users to specify topics and the number of questions desired. 
## Task 7 : Quiz Generator
Following task introduces a QuizGenerator, designed to generate quiz questions based on a provided topic and context. It integrates Langchain's components, including VertexAI for language modeling and vector stores.The QuizGenerator configures the LLM for question generation, setting parameters like model name, temperature, and maximum output tokens and it generates quiz questions using the provided topic and context from the vector store. It also leverages Langchain's capabilities to retrieve relevant documents and format prompts, ultimately invoking the LLM to generate questions.Hence, It initializes Langchain components like DocumentProcessor, EmbeddingClient, and ChromaCollectionCreator and renders a Streamlit form for user input (topic and number of questions).Finally Upon submission, it creates a Chroma collection, initializes a QuizGenerator, and generates quiz questions based on the input.Following task showcases the integration of Langchain's functionalities into a Streamlit-based Quiz Builder application, providing an interactive platform for generating educational quiz content.
## Task 8 : Generate Quiz Algorithm
This task uses QuizGenerator from Task 7 which is responsible for generating quiz questions based on a provided topic and vector store. It incorporates Langchain's VertexAI for language modeling and retrieval of relevant context. The QuizGenerator initializes and configures the Large Language Model (LLM) for generating quiz questions, generates quiz questions using the provided topic and context from the vector store, orchestrates the generation of a list of unique quiz questions based on the specified topic and number of questions, it ensures that each generated question is unique within the generated quiz.Hence, It initializes Langchain components like DocumentProcessor, EmbeddingClient, and ChromaCollectionCreator and it renders a Streamlit form for user input (topic and number of questions).Upon submission, it creates a Chroma collection, initializes a QuizGenerator, and generates quiz questions based on the input.This task demonstrates the integration of Langchain's functionalities into a Streamlit-based Quiz Builder application, offering an interactive platform for generating unique educational quiz content.
## Task 9 : Generate Quiz UI
The QuizManager is introduced to manage the state and navigation of quiz questions within the Streamlit application. It's responsible for initializing with a list of quiz questions, retrieving questions by index, and navigating between questions. It initializes the QuizManager with a list of quiz questions provided as input and it calculates and stores the total number of questions.It retrieves the quiz question object at a specified index. If the index exceeds the bounds, it wraps around to ensure circular navigation and it adjusts the current quiz question index based on the specified direction (next or previous). It utilizes modulo arithmetic to handle wrapping around the total number of questions.Finally, the QuizManager is instantiated with the generated quiz questions. It's then utilized to retrieve and display quiz questions sequentially within a Streamlit form. Users can navigate through questions and submit their answers, with feedback provided for correctness. This enhancement enriches the quiz-building application by enabling smooth navigation between quiz questions, enhancing the user experience.
## Task 10 : Screen State Handling
In this last update, the Streamlit application now integrates the QuizManager class to manage the quiz questions and navigate between them. Upon the initial run, the application sets up the necessary session state variables and prompts the user to input the quiz topic and number of questions. It then initializes the QuizGenerator to create quiz questions based on the provided topic and displays them.After generating the quiz questions, the application stores them in the session state and sets a flag to indicate that the quiz should be displayed. It also initializes the question index to 0.Using the QuizManager, the application retrieves the quiz questions and displays them one by one in a Streamlit form. The user can select an answer for each question and submit it.Navigation buttons in the following application allows the user to move to the next or previous question within the quiz as these buttons utilize the next_question_index method of the QuizManager class to update the question index accordingly.Upon submitting an answer, the application checks if the selected answer is correct and provides feedback to the user and it can go back and forth maintaining the session state.. Additionally, it displays the explanation for the correct answer.
## Task 11: Docker for Streamlit Application
Dockerfile in the following application is designed to create a Docker image that includes the necessary environment for running the Streamlit application, along with any dependencies specified in requirements.txt, and it sets up the environment variables required for authentication with Google Cloud services and after the the GCP Authentication, it starts the streamlit application.

## RUNNING THE APPLICATION : 

docker build -t image-name .
docker run -p 8501:8501 image-name

Then, head to the following url to observe the Quiz generation based on the PDF and Topic Provided.


